VERSION CONTROL SYSTEM

							                            
														
														
					OVERVIEW

Version Control System is used to keep track of changes of a particular project, files and folders 

whereby it creates versions of changes made to each type of project, files and folders. There are different types of

version control system which has being used in the past which aren't in much use today, such as Source Code Control System,

Revision Control System, Concurrent Version System, Apache Subversion and Bitkeeper SCM. Each of these earlier stated

version control system were found to have some of the following issues such as; working with only an individual file at 

a time, speed of processing files, community issues e.t.c.

In recent times, the use of a version control system that fitted into the demands of individuals was created which is called GIT,

which uses the following features listed below;

(1) It uses distribution version control like Bitkeeper

(2) It is open-source and a free software, making it have a large community.

(3) It is compatible with Linux , Mac OS and WIndows.

(4) It is faster than other SCM's 

(5) It is better in safeguarding against data corruption.

(6)They increase the team’s productivity with continuous integration and developments.

GIT has some paid features for companies or individuals since it is very popular and has a high-demand in use, so GIT makes

money from these features and also trainings of I.T experts whom has being accustomed to using their product which gives

trust to other colleagues in the I.T fields.

GIT also uses a file hosting or cloud computing service called GitHub in order to create a secured backup of files in the 

case of Natural disaster, fire, accidents or other unforseen circumstances.

As GIT has advantages to the world it has some disdavantages which can be improved upon to gain or create a shift in

in customer base such as;

Below are the disadvantages:

(1)GIT requires technical excellence and it is slower on windows. 

(2)They have tedious command lines to input and doesn’t track renames.

(3)They have poor GUI and usability. 

(4)And also, they take a lot of resources which slows down the performance.

(5)GIT doesn’t support checking out sub-trees. 

(6)For each project, the central service would need to be set up for multiple package repositories.

(7)It lacks window support and doesn’t track empty folders.

(8)GIT needs multiple branches to support parallel developments used by the developers.

(9)There is no built-in access control and doesn’t support binary files.

(10)They do not provide access control mechanisms in case of security.

(11)The process of Packing is very expensive completely.

In order to create or sell a version control system which can be able to standout in this competitive market, some 

of the major problems or all fixed, could give an edge over GIT software as a whole.
